This is Jocco podcast number six with Echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink.
Time to get back to the books.
Last time I read some letters and today we're going back to the books and actually this
one is kind of hard pressed or it's a stretch to call this a book.
But I've given some pretty, you know, the last hundred yards is a very rare piece of
piece of literature if you could even call it that.
Same with battle leadership.
That's pretty rare.
Now that one can be found on the internet.
About face was a pretty popular book.
But this one tonight we're going with something that many people have heard of or at a minimum.
The word of Napoleon.
Right?
It's a very leader.
But what's interesting about this and what's almost makes it cheating from my perspective
for me is that these are maximums.
These are already parsed down and put into a format.
That's very easy to understand.
You know, the work has already been done.
And I'll tell you, it is hard for me to find books or pieces of information to do this
with.
And part of the reason is it takes a, it takes, I'm looking for something very specific.
Right?
And it's not, you know, there's a lot of, there's tons of great books about war and they
are about war.
What happened and how the war happened and what tactics were used and what unit moved
where and how many people they killed and how many maneuvers they did.
And so that's very interesting.
And there's definitely lessons to be learned from that.
And there is knowledge and there's knowledge inside of tactics.
And you know, the most common one is like, if you talk about the flank, which is the most
common tactic is, you know, if you're assaulting a target, you go straight on.
And that's, that's a frontal assault.
But then what you want to do is you want to swing around the outside and hit them from
where they're not protecting themselves.
So that's a tactic that can be applied to, you know, anything.
It can be applied to a debate.
It can be applied to jujitsu.
It can be applied to business situations where you know you want to hit your competition
where they aren't expecting it.
So that's a flank.
So there is knowledge to be gained from tactics for sure.
But what I am always more interested in is the leadership.
And the human psychology, you know, and that's why I love battle, battle leadership because
that first chapter is battle field psychology.
And this is pre, you know, this is World War I.
You know, there was no kind of foo foo new age, hay, feelings and what are people?
No, all that stuff didn't exist.
And here's this guy talking about battle field psychology.
But that's what I'm always interested in.
That's what I want to explore.
That's what I want to learn about.
That's what I want to compare my experiences to because, and I've said this before,
and leadership is the most challenging of all endeavors and leading these human beings with
all these variables is the most challenging and therefore the most rewarding.
So while the tactics are important and you can gain from them, it's how the people react,
what they do, where they go, those are the things that stand the test of time.
And that's always what I'm looking for.
So these kind of things are the things that allow you as a leader of other people to look
at those examples and learn from them and gain from them.
And there will be little changes and little adjustments and you can see that there's
changes over time, but the basic principles no matter when you can always learn from them.
And it's the same thing with the tactics like, for instance, when we were fighting in an
Iraq and Afghanistan, then I did not fight in Afghanistan, but one of my good buddies
that fought with me in Iraq, and we brought back a lot of tactics and learned a lot of
lessons and he said, after we went to Afghanistan, he said, that's the same thing.
And people say, it's totally different.
And so he fought in both, and he says, yeah, in Iraq, where we weren't, in Ramadi,
he goes in Ramadi, and in Iraq, it's streets and buildings.
And you get the elevated positions on the buildings, and then you've got control over the
streets, and he goes in Afghanistan, it's valleys and hills, and you get the elevated
position on the hills, and it's pretty much the same thing.
Are there differences?
Absolutely.
You know, but I'm saying the basic principles that he learned he was able to apply.
And again, not that I don't always keep an open mind that things can change and things
unexpected things will happen.
But that's sort of where, you know, what I'm always looking for.
So that's why there's a lot of war books that I love to read and read, but I don't take
away the same types of lessons that I want to talk to people about.
Or that I think people want to talk to about.
It'd be a different program.
It would be a different program.
And maybe we should do a program that's aimed at, you know, military people that are
concerned about tactics, because that is definitely something that I, that I kind of worshiped
tactics.
I love talking about tactics, but for the, for normal people and and for military leaders,
learning about how people react is to me kind of what's important and what I like to
explore.
Right.
So interesting.
I had a couple of things about Napoleon.
Everyone knows, you know, something about Napoleon.
A couple of cool facts about him.
And this is going into this book here, which, which the book is actually called Ruch of
Strategy.
It's got a bunch of different, bunch of different sections to it.
And it's different leaders, different historical leaders throughout time.
And this section on Napoleon, Napoleon, going into the book here, Napoleon fought more
battles than Alexander Hannibal and Caesar combined.
He is beyond any doubt the greatest of European soldiers.
So pretty good lead in.
We were talking about a guy with some knowledge.
He astounded his opponents by the crushing rapidity of his battles.
He marched against the enemy and his plan of battle was a part of his plan of march.
So he's a guy that used mobility and used the quickness in the pace to dictate how the battles
were going to go.
His tactical system or scheme of battle was based on a holding attack against the enemy's
front to keep them occupied.
A wide development or turning movement on the enemy's rear with a small force to spread
dismay and confusion in the defenders ranks.
And then the decisive though.
So that's what we just talked about.
He was sort of a master of the flank.
Hey, I'm going to do a good assault.
You're going to be paying attention to that.
And then from the side or the rear or somewhere that you're not expecting, you're getting
submitted.
And that's what he did.
Napoleon was the first great strategist of the Western world.
His battles were the result of his strategic movements and were carefully calculated.
Very.
I would say that anyone that associates anyone that thinks of Napoleon, thinks of him as
a strategist and a great strategist.
Now this collection of his maxims was published in Paris in 1827.
And almost immediately was translated into German, English, Spanish, and Italian.
Stonewall Jackson carried these maxims in his haversac throughout his campaign.
This little volume states Colonel Henderson, who is Jackson's biography, contains a fairly
complete exposition in Napoleon's own words of the grand principles of war.
And then the person that actually compiled the maxims.
And this is actually this is a statement that is very similar to what I started off talking
about what I like to learn about.
The art of war is susceptible of being considered under two titles, the one which rests
entirely on the knowledge and genius of the commander, the other on matters of detail.
Now, they're going to break that down a little bit further.
The first is the same for all time, for all peoples, whatever arms with which they fight.
On this it follows that the same principles have directed the great captains of all centuries.
So that's what I like to read about.
Those same principles that have directed the great captains of all centuries.
Those basic principles and a lot of those have to do with human nature.
And then it goes on to say that the matters of detail and what he's talking about matters
details he's talking about tactics on the contrary are subject to the influence of time,
to the spirit of the people and the character of armor.
And so that's when you change from having bone arrows to rifles to machine guns to bombs to
whatever.
And so there are drastic changes in those tactics.
And that's why while they interest me, and I always like to find a common thread in
tactics and say, oh, I had the same thing that we do that they didn't war war one.
We do that now or whatever.
You know, I'm always looking to find that thread, but it's sometimes it can be hard to find.
And sometimes it doesn't exist to any great degree whereas the way people act, the way
human beings respond to combat situations, it doesn't change as much.
Yeah, you would think if you go deep enough or fundamental enough that it's not surprising
that it won't change because dealing with people in their needs and like almost on a biological
level, like psychologically, a lot of times biologically, you know, preservation of life plays
a big part.
So yet technology can advance, even social stuff can advance, but that those fundamental
needs typically see the same.
And you're right, but if you think about this and we talked about this last time like
with World War One, you know, these basic needs for survival, these men would just
just through them out the window.
I mean, it's just absolutely crazy.
They disregarded that drive and just went over the top into hell and into machine gun
fires.
Does that kind of go along the lines with something that is still here in a big way
where they kind of put their own personal needs?
They're, you know, they're, they're need to survive personally.
They put the need for their mission or their honor to survive.
They put that in front of their need to survive personally.
And that doesn't, that kind of translate even now.
That's how, like, yes.
Yes, I mean, I guess if we say that that's a normal human trait, which I don't know if
it is or not, that I think it's something that gets learned.
I don't think it's a inherent normal, normal trait.
Unless you say, look, people have an inherent trait to make their tribe their family survive.
Yeah.
And maybe that's it.
Yeah, that's what I was going to say.
That's exactly what I was going to say.
So military culture, especially when you, when you deal with the elite, where doing a good
job to put a lightly doing a good job is very important.
You would think that that culture cultivates that need to put the mission in front of my own
personal stuff.
So, and so deep into that, that individual that it does most of the time Trump, they're
need.
Yeah, personally.
You know what, you're right, and that thread actually we can go through all of
history and find a thread of groups of people that sacrificed and put their mission
or the group had to themselves.
Yes.
And then, especially with the 300 Spartans, I mean, that's a classic example.
Yeah.
And even if you thought and died for their country.
And even people who aren't in the military, we understand that that's how elite soldiers
are.
You know, we understand that, oh, yeah, they, they, that's an elite soldier, one who will
put his life on the line for the mission for the country.
We all understand that.
And you use the term elite, but I will not use the term elite because I've seen every
soldier who wouldn't be considered elite.
Right.
I've seen them all.
Do that.
Yeah.
Marines do that.
And US Army soldiers and, and, you know, the, the, the, the, untrained reserveist
that doesn't really, you know, hasn't been through the kind of training that we have
at all, but they will have that.
So it has nothing to do really with, which actually proves your point even more is that
it doesn't even have to do with your level of training or you're so called being elite.
Right.
That has to do with your dedication to the mission and the people that are with you.
So yeah.
But yeah, I guess the better than better than a word than elite would be, I guess,
just like a dedicated soldier, just soldier in general.
Yes.
So back to the book here.
A plan.
Because I will get into the maximums and I'm not, obviously, it'll do all of them.
But I picked out the ones that I kind of fought have the most talk about human nature.
But at the same time, also talk about from a leadership perspective planning execution,
if they are important and they are universal, then I, I put them in here and this is kind
of one of them that I just talked about with planning.
A plan of campaign should anticipate everything which the enemy can do and contain within
itself the means of forwarding him.
The means of campaign may be infinitely modified according to the circumstances.
This is exactly what we heard on battle leadership from Vaughan Shell.
Is that?
So he just said, you know, the plan should anticipate everything.
But then he goes on to say, plans of campaign may be infinitely modified according to the
circumstances, the genius of the commander, the quality of the troops and its biography
of the theater of war.
So this is again a common thread that we hear all the time and that is you got to have
adaptability and you've got to be.
And one of the biggest hinderances to adaptability is ego is when you say, you know what, my
plan is awesome.
My plan is my plan is the best and I'm just going to ride my plan into the ground and take
everyone down with me because I don't have the humility to admit that my plan went wrong,
to admit that the enemy did something I didn't expect to admit that I have shortfalls
with my troops or whatever the case may be and say, you know what, I need to adapt.
I'm going to do it now.
Next one.
All wars should be systematic for every wars should have an aim and be conducted in conformity
with the principles and rules of the art.
Wars should be undertaken with forces corresponding to the magnitude of the obstacles that
are to be anticipated.
Now what caught me about that one was recently I got to ask a bunch of questions about
the situation in Iraq and Syria and one of the things people want to throw out there because
it's a catchy buzzword or group of buzzwords and that's you know boots on the ground and
you're kept getting asked well how many boots on the ground do we need?
How many troops do we need to put on the ground?
My answer was the same every time which is we put as many troops on the ground as it takes
to wind and to wind decisively and without question.
That's how you go to war.
Now this is another little maximum which I really like at the commencement of a campaign
the question whether to advance or not requires careful deliberation.
So before you go into war you you carefully deliberate and this is something that I've
been talking about lately when people think that because I'm a soldier because I'm a
warrior that I want to go to war and I want my friends to go to war which is just a
ridiculous statement.
If there's anybody that understands the impact of war it's guys that have been to war.
So this careful deliberation before you commence a campaign is exactly what should be
done and then it goes on to say.
But when you have once undertaken the offensive it should be maintained to the last
extremity right that's commitment that is commitment.
Now I will say this even on that and that's a beautiful thing you should maintain to the
last extremity that's an extreme statement and I will tell you that you got to balance
that and you want to maintain that but what I just said is that you know if your plan
isn't working you got to put your ego in check and figure out a new plan.
So yeah you want to maintain it to the last extremity but just short of the last
extremity is okay do an ego check and make sure you've got a good plan going.
A retreat however skillful the maneuvers may be will always produce an injurious moral
effect on the army.
Since by losing chances of success yourself you throw them into the hands of the enemy.
Besides retreats cost far more both in men and material than the most bloody engagements
with this difference.
That in battle the enemy loses nearly much as you while on retreat the loss is all on
your side.
Again a common thread that we talk about with Vaunchel with Hackworth in that is being on
the offensive is good.
Being on the offensive is always better than being on the defensive.
This is another I hope I don't know what I'm saying this for every one of these maxons.
But these are you know and it's not surprising that you do say this before each one of these
maxons you go wow this is an impactful and this is important I've heard this before this is another
way of reinstating the same topic that we say all the time.
A general should say to himself many times a day if the hostile army were to make his
make its appearance in front on my right or on my left what should I do.
And if he is embarrassed his arrangements are bad there is something wrong he must
rectify his mistake.
So this is the humility of constantly asking yourself okay if I got hit from the flank
right now what would I do how would I handle it am I ready for that if I'm not ready for
how do I make that change so constantly assessing yourself seeing where you're at seeing
how you're doing that's a common thread not just for war but for being a man and being a human
being a woman being a being a person that's trying to be successful are you looking at looking
around and you know things I'm always most nervous when things are going well when things are
going well I'm always thinking okay when when is the bad thing going to come and hit me you know
how do I prepare for that how do I watch out for it how do I flank that thing before happens to
yeah a lot of times people will get in the in a way revel in the success right and then they'll get
used to it it'll get good to them you used to it and then yeah one something does go bad or just
different you're going to lie down and decide it yeah they're just so into that success and
immersing themselves in in that success then yeah they didn't know what to do I was uh we my first
deployment to Iraq we were doing assaults and capturing bad guys and we got a guy and then we went
and got another guy right right on top of them we interrogated that guy we wouldn't go we broke down
some sell and my commanding officer at the time he came to me he said hey jokko that those you
know I think it was four missions in a row within 24 hour period and he said hey those operations
that was awesome awesome work you know tell your platoon they did a great job getting the
information going back out there quick planning cycle it was just fantastic you know those are
very admirable and I just looked into my said give us 24 hours and we'll screw it up and I just
you don't want to set expectations that's how that's how that's too avoid what you were talking
about to avoid be like that's right you know I said no you know what sir give us 24 hours and
we'll screw it up right do you ever fear like in the we're in that particular case that um he could
look at at it as dang are you being negative or because obviously you're not given what you're saying
you're not being negative you're checking yourself the whole time and but do you fear that that
either hand but either you're commanding officer or anyone would take that as dang this guy's
a person there something like that no I had a good great relationship with my with all my
commanding officers you know why we say that's my responsibility you have a great relationship with
these guys and so he knew that I was just being humble and making sure that we're not good
talking even though he was trying to fire me up and you know he's probably trying to do that
because everyone was kind of burned out I mean from doing staying awake for a long period of time
and doing a bunch of hobs and he was just trying to you know give some compliments and yeah I just said
hey sir you know let's not let's not get crazy here yeah long deployment ahead of us still so
you gotta be careful about
to operate upon lines remote from each other and without communications between them is a
fault which ordinarily occasions a second the detached column has orders only for the first day
its operations for the second day may depend on what has happened to the main body
thus according to circumstances the column wasted time in waiting for orders or acts randomly
so what that means is you've got multiple elements out there and you've got the main element
and whoever breaks off from that main element they might know what to do the first day
but what do they do the second day and this is just going into classic decentralized command
because in reality today in today's world this rarely happens where we lose total communications
and in the business world I mean I'm a text away you can literally talk to me
at instantaneously but there's there's times in combat and in the business world and in life
where instantaneously isn't fast enough you know it is not fast enough when we talk about this
with decentralized command if you know you get ambushed and you don't know what you're supposed to do
as a commander when you get ambushed you don't have a plan you don't have an overall strategy
then what do you gonna call back to higher headquarters and say hey jocca we're getting ambushed right now
what do you want me to do no I've you you gotta be out there in the field with the with the commanders
intent that you know what what you're supposed to do and you know that if you get ambushed here
which you're gonna do you're gonna break contact or you're gonna you know flank the enemy
or whatever the case may be but you're gonna know what to do in a business environment it's the same thing
there's times where instant communication isn't fast enough you know I actually see this
when we work with like sales people and you know there'll be some hierarchy of adjusting
product pricing and you know a client will come in or a customer will come in
and and if that person if that front line sales person doesn't have the ability to make a
pricing decision on the spot and say you know what sir I see you you know you've you've shopped
us around and this is the deal you've got over there I can do here I can take care of you we can
beat that price if you can't do that he's gonna lose you know if he goes let me check with my
manager sure he could hang on to but there's a chance he's gonna lose him so sometimes instantaneous
isn't fast enough you know it's gotta be it's gotta be quicker it's gotta be able to happen
with no communications and that's that's what this is referring to it ought it ought then
to be adopted as a principle that the columns of an army should always be kept united
so that when the enemy cannot thrust themselves between them
this is something that I always preached to my seal leadership and that is that
separating your forces and sometimes you do have to do it and it's and it's a completely
acceptable tactic but it's always better to be unified it's always better to be close enough
that you can in fact you can be separate but you know you always need to be close enough to each other
to support each other so if you know you shouldn't be getting you're you and your element shouldn't
be getting any further away from me in my element then we could be able to support you so what's
the range of my guns what's the accurate range of my guns you know if I can shoot three or four
hundred five hundred meters you know if you have eight guys now I have eight guys and now we're
getting further than that apart that means I really can't support you so now we're alone
and that's not how you want to be so again there's times where people have to take calculated
risks but we always would say you know keep that keep together stay together as much as you can
and and again this is it I'm I'm talking tactics now this is like for people that are in the military
that are listening to this podcast there's something to keep in the back of your mind stay where you
can cover and move stay where you can mutually support one another
hmm they should move oh when for any reason this maximum is departed from the detach core
should be independent in their operations they should move towards a fixed point at which they are
you to unite they should march without hesitation and without new orders and should be exposed as
little as possible to the danger being attacked separately this to me goes into contingencies
where if we do get separated you've got to know okay if I get separated and it's been an hour
I'm going to this fixed point and we're gonna make it happen yeah that's something you're at the
mall yeah I was just gonna say when you got a family this is something you actually have to legit come
up with okay if we get separated here's what I'm meeting here's what time and by the way if we don't
make that muster for whatever reason the next one will be here and so you got to have a little
contingency planning with the fam make sure it's all good what is muster me muster means bringing
everyone together and counts how many people you have I'm gonna say that next time yeah say
mustard is that so and so next one a well established maximum for is not to do anything
which your enemy wishes and for the single reason that he does so wish okay that is pretty
self explanatory don't do anything that your enemy wants you to do you should therefore
avoid a field of battle which he is reconnoidered and studied you should still you should be
still more careful to avoid one which he has fortified and where he has entrenched himself
a corollary of this principle is never to attack in front a position which admits of being turned
so one of the one of the the biggest pieces that I take away from this and this is you should
still be more careful to avoid one which he has fortified and where he hasn't entrenched himself
I used to give my guys warnings about this about these fixed positions that are entrenched
and I wasn't talking about combat you know what I was talking about I was talking about debates
because you there's guys in the seal teams that would lure you into some kind of a debate about
let's say the strategy that the seal teams were using at the strategy the way things that
they the way they thought things should be done and the thing is these guys would sit there
and have this argument with amongst themselves and with other people and so they would they would
have these kind of fortified positions on them and you roll into it and you're like you've got your
experience but you're not ready for a debate on it you're not ready for these fortified positions
that you're going to throw at you so don't engage in these battles and you know it's like
I was doing Sam Harris's podcast you know and I went up there and there were some things that
I thought you know he might ask me about some of these philosophical opinions on things and of course
I mean I was ready to have a discussion but what I wasn't ready to do was like stand my ground
on the topic of free will with Sam Harris a guy that's literally written an entire block which is
called free will and he has his own so for me to engage with him it's an entrenched position it's
something that I'm not going to I'm not going to win and in fact you know it's not it's not like
Sam Harris is a pretty mellow guy it's not going to go to the government but I wasn't going to
make any practical points you know and so I'm just always very cautious and again in the business
world you get people that understand some part of their business so well you have to be very careful
you have to plan when you're going to engage with them because otherwise you're going to get just
you know destroyed mm-hmm yeah Sam Harris is a position on free will is pretty fortified
out yeah and it's and and and the scary thing is is that you can actually be right about something
but if you're going to get someone that's got a fortified position you can still lose the argument
and look stupid not that there's anything wrong with looking stupid but you know you want to pick
your battles I mean right yeah not that Sam Harris isn't right or anything like that
yeah I'm the same in general yeah no no no I wasn't definitely wasn't talking specifically about
about Sam Harris that's just a great example because again it's a guy that's literally written a book
called free will yeah so if he wants to talk about it and I want to say no I don't agree with you
he's just ready for that you know just like if he reset you know what hey let's let's train
you jutsu I'm ready for that I've been in every position that that's going to happen in jutsu
I've been in there a thousand more times than him yeah because I've been training for a really long time
so we have that discussion about free will it's going to be the same thing I'm just not going to
we have this thing to the table is that kind of like the guys who who are really into conspiracy theories
you know and they if they present it to you they're going to have all this research and website
and documentaries that they went to and you're you know yeah even even if your facts are like
stronger they have so many other weapons and they're ready for that war they're ready for their
lunch and fortified like are you're saying yeah yeah that's a hard word to win yeah because I'm
not going to go like we've talked about before I'm not going to go and dig through the interwebs
and watch video upon video about just to fight that war just to fight to it's not even necessarily
to prove anything right or right it's just you got just to fight and win that war yeah the passage
from the defensive to the offensive is one of the most delicate operations of war and I actually have
a note of what I think is the most difficult operation of war and that is linking up under fire
and again you know what now I'm talking tactically to two two people that are listening to the
show that are currently serving in the military in the police linking up with other units
other from the units under fire is one of the most difficult things to do because there's so much
confusion people are shooting you're trying to bring friendly units together there can be bad
guys in between you and obviously if there's bad guys in between you and the other good guys and
you have to shoot at the bad guys that means you're shooting at good guys too your bullets can hit them
so it's a very very very challenging thing to do so be careful when it comes time to link up
under fire and you know what I think of when I think of this I think of when you see companies
merge it's they're you know they're they're moving together and there's just it's a very
challenging there's confusion there's a disorder there's a there's a merging of the chain of
commands of two different groups so it's it's very challenging and so anybody that's going into
some kind of a merger scenario you've got to recognize out of the gate that this is one of the
most hardest military operations and one of the hardest business operations to do so you've got
to be aggressive with it you've got to plan it you've got to be clear about it you've got to do it
in a simple way don't think that you're just gonna merge two companies together and it's
going to be all good it's a very challenging event to participate in.
It is a violation of correct principles to cause cores to act separately without communication
with each other in the face of a concentrated army with easy communications.
This is the same theme this idea that you want to stay together you want to work together you want
to and I'll fill this word out there in case people didn't catch the first time I said it the word
mutually support or the words mutually support you want to mutually support each other.
Now what we find in the business world is you get different elements inside of a company
that do not work together they don't communicate with each other and it's the same thing as
being out on the battlefield and you got your platoon and I got my platoon and if we're not talking
how are we helping each other it's we're not and if we if you try and hit the enemy
and the enemy's bigger and stronger than than you are alone he's going to beat you and then if I
try and you know later even if it's an hour later I try and hit him well guess what he's
bigger and stronger than you and he's bigger and stronger than me he's going to beat me we
have to join together work together it's so obvious I know it's obvious and you know what you
would think it'd be obvious to people on the battlefield and yet Napoleon himself felt the need
to write that down as a maximum because people don't do it and and and and lay for
an eye in in our book we have the the law of combat called cover move and that's what it is
about mutual support it's about working together it's about teamwork and it's about not having
silos in your organization where one person just is going to be on their own or one element on
their own or other elements on their own or other elements on their own are you talking about
like just structurally where that's how you kind of run the business or are you talking about where
they don't communicate because I don't really like that guy it's both us oh and now what will
structurally mean you have to have things structurally there will be separate elements structurally
in the military the military there's you know there's artillery that's a separate element there's
you know logistics that's a separate element you've got then you've got the the infantry
companies and there'll be separate infantry companies but they're all separate but they have
to work together they have to mutually support they have to communicate they fail to do that
well in a business you've got the same thing you've got a sales branch you've got in
operational branch you've got an administrative branch you've got a marketing branch and all those branches they have to work together too
Yeah, so and
on a personal level let's say
you know, I don't like
Jenny from HR
So I can't stand Jenny from HR
Yeah, so so we're not gonna we're not gonna talk to her. You know, we're just we don't need her
You know, we're just gonna continue without her kind of kind of attitude
Yes, that's a classic example if
Anyone decides that for personal reasons or whatever they're not gonna work with someone else that's exactly what I'm talking about and it does happen in
It happens so often in businesses. It's ridiculous and it happens in the military too
It happens in sea will platoons. It happens in inter-services and
And that's just a huge obstacle to overcome and like I said that's why
Napoleon bone apart himself put it in his maximums
Another one one battalion
Sometimes decides the issue of the day
So which battalion is that gonna be we don't know which element is gonna hit that critical situation
This to me is bringing it back to you know being prepared and giving you know
Making your teams strong all of them in balancing them because one battalion or one element or one team or maybe even one person can
Decide the issue of the day so balance is very important
I just couldn't help just going tactical with Napoleon on some of these I really couldn't it's just great stuff
I understand
It should be adopted as a principle never to allow intervals through which the enemy can penetrate between the different cores
Fawning the forming the line of battle unless you have laid a snare
Into which it is your object to draw him
This is very simple for people that are in the military to understand and I just kind of talked about it if you and I are the good guys
And we have guns just you and me and we allow a bad guy to get in between you and me and he has a gun
Now what is that do you do you understand?
What that does if I want to shoot the guy and I mess by a quarter of an inch who does it hit?
Right potentially me it hits you. Yeah, it hits you because it's Murphy's law not even it potentially it will hit you
It's Murphy's law so you want to always again the scores back to you know unity of command and
Having your elements working together and not allowing other elements to penetrate in between
Your forces interesting how he added unless it's to snare him like unless that's like that you're baiting them into a trap kind of thing
That's interesting how he added that specifically like that's kind of a dope little thing to do yeah
It is it I don't know if Napoleon would have said it was a dope little thing to do but
But it kind of is though that's a thing and this is the next one same theme the camps of the same army should always be so placed as to be able to sustain each other
Right you always have to be able to mutually support
Mm-hmm mutually support as you would say that is important a
Good general good officers commissioned and non-commissioned good organization
Good instruction and strict discipline make good troops independently of the cause for which they are fighting
Independently of the cause for which they're fighting a good general good officers commissioned and non-commissioned good
Organization good instruction and strict discipline make good troops independent of the cause for which they're fighting
So you can actually just have a
Incredibly strong force that can operate at a high level
Regardless of the cost that they're fighting for just because they have those things
Yeah, like kind of what I told you before where if you you know you were
Trained in discipline trained in all these things all the way down to just okay for example if you if you were trained in
By whatever means you're trained to show up on time every single time
Where you
You know never be late. Yeah, to the point where being late could very well be the end of the world for you like train that hard and never being late
That's gonna for a certain situation like you're in the military
Right, so you can never be late in the military so now when you get out
When you show up for work when you show up for drinks with your friend
Chances aren't you're never gonna be late of course and that goes for you know the skills the discipline and everything else you're trained in
Yeah
The first quality and this is now we're just gonna get after it
the first quality of a soldier is
Constancy in enduring fatigue and hardship
Courage is only the second
So the first quality of a soldier is
Constancy in enduring fatigue and hardship that is the this is Napoleon Bonaparte
Saying that the most important thing the most important quality of a soldier is that they that they can endure
fatigue and hardship
Courage is only second poverty
privation and want are the school of the good soldier
So now when you look at any of the elite military training
Schools that
Those get that people could put through. Well, what is it about it's about poverty?
Privation and want you know, it's about being hungry cold tired miserable. That's what they do
You know, privation
I look that word up actually a state in which
Things that are essential for human well being are lacking
And that's what they do and
You know for me
You know, I was talking about like you know, I don't sleep a lot awake up early. That's one of those things that it was pretty natural to me luckily
There's some biological
Genetic reason or whatever
But that was very helpful to me very helpful for me to not have to sleep a lot
Yeah
And being able to suffer through that well
was
Was beneficial and
You know, there's a lot of guys that have that that talent and people that don't have that talent have a rough time. Yeah as
You know as warriors in real sense
You should
By all means encourage the soldiers to continue in the service
This you can easily do by testifying greatest team for old soldiers
They do that very well in the military. You know the older
More experienced veteran soldiers get a lot of respect
The pay should also be increased in proportion to the years in service
There's a great injustice in having no higher pay to a veteran than to a crew. So that's
That's good. Now when I read this this didn't particularly strike me as an important maximum to bring up
But it reminded me of a story
That always stuck with me and
And so I was over in Ramadi and I was working with a with the battalion called the first of the 506 band of brothers
Red curry just
unbelievably awesome and our heroic
Soldiers and I went over there for a meeting
With the commander of the battalion and I
I showed up to the meeting early of course. I was meeting him in his office, but and this guy was
Was just an incredible leader and
An incredible soldier and really an incredible man
That I could not have any more respect for and
You know, I'm not saying his name right now because I don't want to interrupt his privacy in his world
You know, I don't know if he wants to have his name set on a podcast
You know and we talk about him in the book and I don't put his name in there either and again
This is out of respect for people's privacy and also out of
You know security reasons you know he doesn't want to have the
Insurgents and terrorists of the world knowing that he was this guy. So
But I will tell you this the guy was just a fantastic leader and
So I went to this meeting with him. There's just a one on one meeting. I forget what we were talking about
But I showed up early and he's in there and I can hear him, you know, he's kind of talking to a soldier. I can't hear what he's saying
And there's just a soldier and what's interesting about this is these the army seeing the seal teams when you go
When you join a seal platoon for two years or whatever
How however long it's gonna be you stay in that seal platoon
You do a workup cycle and then you go out on deployment and
and
The army does a little bit differently the army you could be
Three months into a year long deployment to Iraq and
They will just
They'll just leave they'll there'll be their time their time and the army is up and they'll go home or
And then some new guy will show up and they'll be the middle deployment and that's how they do it
The seal team doesn't really do that. You know, you kind of stick together for an entire straight six or seven month deployment
So I showed up this meeting with the battalion commander and
The soldier that was in before me walks out and
The Colonel I sat down and said hey sir, are you doing good to see you? He's like hey good to see you frogman
And he said you know that right there's a soldier's getting out of the army and I said oh
It's interesting how you guys do that and he said yeah and he and I said you know, what do you say to these guys?
When they're getting out of the army and there's a middle of a deployment and
He looked at me and he said you know
When I deal with a soldier
Let's get out of the army. He said a lot of people will we'll say you can't leave us now
You know you got to stick it out with us. You got to stay here. We need you
And he said when I deal with a soldier that's getting out of the army
I look at him and I shake their hands and I say thank you for your service and
That to me was just awesome to to have a totally different attitude because the seal team is like that as well
Someone's gonna get out of the seal teams. They're not gonna be on the middle of the deployment, but when you get back those. Oh, yeah, I'm getting out and everyone says all your equator
above all, blah, blah, blah, and it's just a different attitude and what does that?
What does it tell you about your community when you say hey?
You know what I'm gonna get move on. I'm gonna take care of my family. I got to you know
I got whatever going on in my life and I'm gonna get out of the seal teams and people are like oh your equator
And that's normal. They do that in every branch. Not just the seal teams and here was this guy in his attitude was
He's gonna say thank you for your service. He appreciate everything you've done and I wish you best luck
That guy is more willing to change his mind because he's like wow I'm working for an incredible leader
The army's awesome right and that that story always stuck with me. He about about how to treat people
About how to treat people. This is a guy that put his life on the line for
Months on end and only did we just say thank you for your service. Yeah, that's a leader right there
Next one
It is not by herangs at the moment of engaging
Soldiers are rendered brave
Veterans hardly listen to them and recruits forget them at the first discharge of a cannon
If speeches and arguments aren't anytime useful
It is during the course of the campaign by counteracting false reports and
Causes of discontent maintaining proper spirit in the camp and furnishing subjects of
Conversations in Bivilax
These several objects be maybe attained by the printed orders of the day and so this is again as a leader in a leadership position
this
He's basically saying look at the moment of combat all year young and screaming and trying to motivate people is too late
The veterans like the veterans aren't gonna listen to you and their crutes that once the cannon goes off
They're not here and you either so your main focus needs to be
You know during the the non-fire fight scenarios that's when you get people with the mindset that's gonna drive them through these bad situations
If you're trying to do this trying to encourage people during the during the firefight you're late
Theme of the night nothing is more important in war than unity in command
When therefore you are carrying on hostilities against a single power only you should have but one army acting on one line and led by one commander
Does that even need
Explanation not really
Unity of command
There are certain things in war of which the commander alone comprehends the importance
Nothing but his superior firmness and ability can subdue and surround all difficulties
This is the burden of command. This is recognizing when you're in a command position and when you're in a leadership position
There are some things that are years alone and you have to drive from the top and I talk all the time about leadership being
At every level and and how the lowest ranking guy is a leader and the person above him is leader all the way through the whole chain of command
But this statement which I agree with as much as I know that leadership throughout the chain of command is
infinitely
important
It is important as a leader to understand that there's some things that you and you alone are gonna understand and it's your responsibility
to ensure that that peace of the battle is handled correctly
This one's a little bit long. I'm gonna read it anyways
To authorize generals and officers to lay down their arms by virtue of a special capitulation under any
Other circumstances than when they constitute the garrison of a fortified place would
Unquestionably be attended with dangerous consequences to open this door to cowards
To men wanting an energy or even misguided brave men is to destroy the military spirit of a nation
From Napoleon
There can be no surrender
An extraordinary situation requires extraordinary resolution
Hmm note taken underlined in red and extraordinary situation requires extraordinary
Resolution
How many things apparently impossible have never the less been performed by resolute men who had no alternative
but death
Strong words very strong words
And
We could go throughout military history and find case upon case where I would tell you yes absolutely that commander made a
wise decision to surrender and you know that's there are situations where that happens
But I think the main point of this is that to have that out there
To have that as a thing right right is not smart is not smart and you know
Going in with MMA fighters and telling them like listen if you get caught in a submission don't tap
Let it break
If you get put to choke go to sleep just
There's no submission you are not tapping
Now I've said that to guys and I've had some guys get out of some crazy
Submissions that they should adapt and maybe they got a little bit injured, but they got out and I'm also had guys get caught in like some devastating
Submissions and then like oh, you know what okay, I'm gonna tap because
But the fact that that attitude wasn't out there right okay, and that like like okay
You know what if you get caught you know what just tap I mean you're not gonna say to a fighter
Okay, look if you caught in a bad arm lock, you know just tap no no you can't have a bad arm lock
Get out of it yeah in competition let it break
Like an MMA fight yeah, I mean obviously not yeah, yeah, yeah, okay. Oh, yeah, I'm training. Sorry folks
If you're in training tap early and tap the office
Yeah, okay, so when you say having that be a thing that's out there meaning there's almost not I don't want to see it a shame
But almost like etiquette is to not surrender. That's etiquette and it's so much an etiquette where it's here
You don't surrender here. It's written planning which don't surrender right right
It's not even etiquette. There's a better word for it
There's a word I don't know what it is, but it's not etiquette. It's it's our
ethos right that's what it is. It's our ethos is do not surrender right?
So when someone does surrender when it's a good move
How you say like everyone's in all there is it's like man
There was literally no other option that could be conceived. Yeah, but to not have it out there
You know that that commander took it to the end degree and
Said you know what all of my man are gonna die for no reason now if I continue on with this so therefore
We are going to surrender and hopefully we'll come back to fight another day. Yeah, otherwise. Yeah, it's
If you know if I don't know someone even has this much mental weakness
Going in he could get and that could kick in at a whole another time
Yes, and now he's under this certain kind of mindset that man
I could look for the easiest way out right here. Yeah, yeah, not real tired or man my shoulder got hurt on that last one
So maybe I'll just you know, but if he's in that mindset that
Don't give up. You just can't surrender. He won't even consider that that won't even enter his mind
That's what I'm talking about that's exactly what I'm talking about
Such conduct such conduct ought to be prescribed pronounced infamous and punishable with death
The generals officers and soldiers who in battle have saved their lives by capitulating ought to be decimated
He commands the arms to be surrendered and those who obey him are a like traders and deserve capital punishment
So they say if you give up you just give up
That's exactly what they're saying
Now we're going to get in a little bit of something that we now refer to as extreme ownership
a
General in chief cannot exonerate himself from responsibility for for his faults by pleading and order of his sovereign or the minister
When the individual from whom it proceeds is at a distance from the field of operations and
But partially or not at all acquainted with the actual conditions of things
So you if I tell you to do something and it doesn't go well for you
It you're out in the field and I told you hey charge this machine gun nest and you do it and everyone dies
And you come back and say hey it wasn't my fault of a joc was fault
The point is here no doesn't work that way does not work that way
hence
It follows that every general and treat chief who undertakes to execute a plan
Which he knows to be bad is culpable
So if I tell you to go attack that machine gun nest and you know it's a bad plan and you executed anyways your fault
That's kind of like I mean that whole idea is
You take responsibility for your direct actions, right? So it's kind of like if you do the opposite of that it's like okay
I you know I was speeding I got caught right I got speeding I got to take it is that my fault
Because yes, it's my fault, but in a way if I don't want to exercise this concept in a way
It's my parents fault for having me
Or maybe not teaching me the value of following traffic. I'm not gone to have this discussion with you
That's just completely ridiculous. It's the same thing. You can blame your parents for your speeding echo Charles
That's what I'm saying. I'll let you do that. That's the point. That's the point of making it that's the end of point here is that
If you're doing something this is even more of an extreme point. This is if your parents tell you to speed
And you go out and get caught speeding and pulled over you go hey my parents somebody's right even more direct
Yeah, that's what I'm saying is you knew it was wrong
You knew you shouldn't be doing it and what Napoleon is saying is it's your fault you're culpable
period
with you let's say
period you knew it was wrong
So it would a better plan of action be expressed that you know that the mission or whatever is wrong
Yeah, you should be like hey, I'm not doing this. Oh, and fact he goes on
He should communicate his reasons insist on a change of plan and finally resign his commission
Rather than become the instrument of the of his army's ruin
This is just the this is the most probably the most powerful thing we're gonna talk about tonight
I'm gonna read it again a general and chief cannot exonerate himself from responsibility for his faults by pleading an order of his sovereign of the minister
When the individual from whom it proceeds is at a distance from the field of operations and
But partially or not at all acquainted with the actual condition of things
So this is an order that's coming on from high from somebody that doesn't know
hence it follows
That every general and chief who undertakes to execute a plan which he knows to be bad is culpable
He should communicate his reasons insist on a change of plan and finally
resign his commission so quit his job rather than become an instrument of his army's ruin
Every general and chief who in consequence of orders from his superiors gives battle with the certainty of defeat is equally culpable
This is ownership
This is hey, I got told to do something. I don't agree with it. Hey boss
You got to listen to me here. This is not the way we need to execute this here's a better plan here's another plan here's a here's an alternative
because if you
Give battle with the certainty of defeat your culpable
regardless of who told you to do what individual responsibility and this is
especially important to have this concept coming from somebody that was as
Egotistical and
Expected so much discipline from his troops that to have Napoleon himself
Saying this like if it's a bad order you shouldn't do it. This is Napoleon saying this, right?
So that's how important it is to have this
This culture in your organization to make sure that everybody knows regardless of what you get told you've got to do the right thing
And it's everyone's individual responsibility to take extreme ownership of everything that's happening and
And not just like you know what I'm gonna point my point my finger up the chain of command
Blame them when something goes wrong. I've talked about this before you know
Many times I blame my bosses for things that went wrong zero
Never blame my bosses. How could it ever be their fault? I was in charge
And if they told me to do something that was stupid I would tell them look. I'm not doing that. Here's why. Let's find a better way
The first qualification of a general and chief is to possess a cool head
So that things may appear to him in their true proportions and as they really are
It's beautiful. It's a beautiful statement possess a cool head
He should not suffer himself to be unduly affected by good or bad news the
Impressions which are made upon his mind
Successively or simultaneously in the course of a day should be so classified in his memory that each shall occupy its proper place
For sound reasoning and judgment result from first examining each of these varied impressions by itself and then comparing them
All with one another
So you're gonna hear all these things
All these different impressions you're gonna get rumors
gossip
Reports probably heard this the first report in war is always wrong. You can hear all that stuff and you got to you got to detach from it
You can't get emotional you got to categorize them and then once you hear them all you can look at them and
assess them all in their own light
There are reason there there are some men who
From their physical and moral constitution deck everything in the colors of imagination
With whatever knowledge talents courage or other good qualities these may be endowed
Nature has not fitted them for the command of armies and the direction of the great
Operations of war so anybody that gets emotional that that here's something and let's it cloud their decisions that gets too close to problems
They're not cut out to lead in war and I have one hundred percent agree with that and they're not cut out to lead in any situation
Hmm
To be familiar with the geography and topography of the country to be skillful in making reconnaissance to be
Attentive to the dispatch of orders
To be capable of exhibiting with simplicity the most complicated movements of an army
These are qualifications that should distinguish the officer called to the station of chief of staff
And my favorite of those is to be capable of exhibiting with simplicity the most complicated movements of the army
I talk about all this all the time. It's a one of our laws of combat
It's a chapter and extreme ownership that we wrote about in simplicity and
A lot of times we talk about giving clear concise orders simple clear concise orders
So that's that's another mark of
Someone that can lead well is someone that can take complex ideas
simplify them and
Communicate them in a simple manner
Is that like you know how in jujitsu you'll you'll like people name moves? Yes, I'll do like some give moves name
But each move will have like you know four five six ten parts to that move details that are important to make them move
You name it one move you learn that home move
So it takes these complex
Orders or moves and simplifies it. Yes, especially when you're communicating
You know do this
And there there are I mean there definitely are coaches that can take complex moves and break them down very simply and
And
That is that is what makes are good instructor right that is what makes a good instructor someone that can explain to you exactly
What you do with your weight exactly where you put your forearm exactly and then and then
Explain to you that you know what this might be a little bit different from you for you because you're a different human
But here's exactly what I do and here's the effect that I'm looking for when I do it
Very simple
That's what we're looking for
The first principle of a general and chief is to calculate what he must do
To see if he has all the means to surround the obstacles with which the enemy can oppose him and when he has made his decision to do everything to overcome them
Again, that's to me is about
commitment
next
War is composed of nothing but accidents
and
Although holding to general principles a general should never lose sight of everything to enable him to profit from these accidents
That is the mark of a genius
in war
There is but one favorable moment the great art is to seize it
Business
Obviously
Gjitsu obviously fighting obviously these that's just there's there's moments
There's opportunity
and when you when you have that opportunity the art is to seize it
Very simply
Defensive war does not exclude attacking just as offensive war does not exclude defending
Although its aim may be to force the frontier and invade the enemy's country
I just think it's important to not only think about hey you should be attacking and defending at the same time and
Defending and attacking at the same time but also we gotta remember the the
contradiction in the fact that he's a guy that talks about offense offense offense but even he has to balance that with defense
Even Napoleon has to balance things and we'll do the last one
A doubtful general who acts without principles and without plan even though he lead
Even though he lead an army numerically superior to that of the enemy almost always finds himself inferior to the latter on the field of battle
Fumblings
The middle course
Lose all in war
And I just like the fact that he's talking about
Principled leadership and I would say that principle leadership
Not just in a leadership position, but as a person what are your principles as a person and if you have principles as a human and you stand by those principles
You're gonna be successful
You're gonna win whereas if you take the middle course and you
Wave or you don't just don't have principles on which to stand
Then you fall apart and
I think that everybody should look to define what their principles are yeah actually define them
I can tell you that I would love to tell you that when I was
You know 19 years old I sat down and wrote down
Jocquos principles of life. I didn't do that. I wish I would have
And I can tell you that as I grew up in the Seal teams there I
Probably added principles and I had some bad ones and I had some good ones
And I think that
Those those principles though when you get to a point where you know that your principles are solid and honestly to me
The best or the the the the biggest thing I've done to define the principles
That I live by is really the book that life and I wrote extreme ownership that's the that was the culmination of
20 years in the Seal teams and
Putting together the principles that that that I live by and
The survival by so I think it's just very important to think about what your principles are as a person
What you're trying to achieve and have those principles like a guiding strategy underneath everything that you're doing
And that's one thing that's good about these podcasts
is that
You know, I'm I've been lucky enough to capture some of these you know like the letters that we read last time these counseling letters
I'm talking about my personal principles in those those were my principles on how to lead
And so I think it's important to
Come up with those principles and define them and let those principles reflect
You know who you are as a person and what you want to be
And I wish that I would have been told to do that
When I was 13 years old
Because I think it is that important
And as a person
Yeah, and it
It seems like anyway that
Defining your principles it seems like that's a
That's kind of an ongoing process yes because
It's one of the things where you think you have your principles, you know, but I don't know for example
You could have just heard it on some speech that really resonated with you so you're dang you think you have
Printing these specific principles now, but you haven't really defined them you just kind of liked how that sounded and you maybe thought of one two three
situations where they're not applies to me and let me tell you what you're talking about right now your number one principle
should be
for your mind
and and have humility
to never say the principles that I'm standing upon are never going to change because I know everything right now and we've talked about this before yes. I know
I
If I look at myself
10 years ago, I know nothing compared to what I know now. Yeah, if I look to myself 20 years ago, I know even less I'm just a lost
Animal out in the woods
So you have to you know build these principles and like you said
And I think there's a difference between
Being a flip flop or like you know your hip politicians get you know, oh your flip flop or because you said you don't support kind of troll and now you and now you
You do you do support it now you don't support or whatever or you do support
Bring it in refugees or not so and people get to call the flip flop or and and I actually
I think there's some core principles that shouldn't change even for a politician and even for a person but there's a lot of peripheral
You know, I think there's peripheral principles that do evolve and do change and you do end up with different priorities in your life and I think that's
Okay, you know there was a large portion of my life
Where the seal teams was absolutely the most important thing and nothing else was even a close second
Including things like my personal health including things like my own family
Including things like my future the everything was just completely
Unimportant compared to the seal teams and while that makes for a fired-up seal and I wouldn't trade that
I wouldn't even want to change that principle. I mean that that's what I needed at the time to do a good job
But you know at a some point I had to say okay, I
I need to think about something else. You know there I need to evolve as a human and
Yeah, and and you know little things like I need to take care of my family. You know, I need to actually pay attention to them and not just pay attention to my
Seal-patoon or my seal task unit or the guys don't work with so you so I think it's okay to
evolve your principles
But I think more important
Is that you need to define your principles and where you are and that also is a way
to
Check your growth and see what course you're on
Yeah, you know, this is one thing that I talk about
When I was in the seal teams, I used to talk about this
The most important piece of information on the battlefield
What do you think the most important piece of information on the battlefield to Zekko?
Echo has no idea. I can come up with an idea, but it'll take a little bit. Yeah, so I used to ask that question to
Everybody to senior guys junior guys and they'd all kinds of you know where you know where the bad guys are
What you know where the target is. I mean that everyone would have different answers
And there's actually only one answer the most important piece of information that you can have on the battlefield is where you are
It's to know where you are on the battlefield
Do you know where you're at?
If you don't know where you're at
Does it really matter if you know where the enemy is? No because you don't even know where you are
If you if you don't know where you're at
Can you even navigate correctly? No because you don't even know where you are
If you don't know where you're at can you get closer?
Support can you call for
Aircraft to come in and drop bombs? No you don't even know where you are
So that piece of data when will you when you apply that to life
How do you know where you are if you're not tracking what your principles are?
Right dancers you're not you're not gonna if you're not gonna know where you are and you're not gonna see how you evolve and when I work with businesses
I use the same principles
Businesses will go out and operate off of instinct
Now you have to trust your instinct and you have to understand it, but you all have to track what the facts are
You know I'd say like where you're metrics how do you know what you did
Last year this time in
Profitability how do you know what you did in sales
You how do you know what you did in product development if you're not tracking it you don't know where you are on the battlefield
And if you don't know where you are on the battlefield you're lost so the your principles
Kind of just continue to be more and more informed you know like you thought about when you're 13 or 16 however old
Where you think you have these principles because I don't know you listen to Henry or Allen
But as you
Conduct yourself through life within open mind and all these you you're offered all these different perspectives that start to solidify your principles
so
Talk about the difference between a flip flopper and then and someone who's who simply open minded right and evolves yeah the differences that
Someone who continuously evolves will have an open mind at the same time have pretty concrete principles
Yes, so when they're offered something significant
That is simply a difference in perspective that is gonna that's gonna essentially on an in a fundamental way
Align with their principles if their principles are fairness and you know these these things that are in our
Eugually good as far as being part of your principles
They're gonna evolve when these
Separate perspectives get presented to them and
And thus solidifying their principles even more yes and echo just use the word thus and I like that
I like that no, true, and I think that's uh like this is good
Good thing to keep in mind as you know people move forward is what are your principles
How are they evolving how are they improving have they gotten better?
Right those are great questions for every individual asked those are questions I'm asking myself right now on the jocco podcast live
It's happening
So speaking of which
We got some questions speaking of questions speaking questions the first question in episode five you mentioned
Treating people with a blank slate
How do you deal with Miss judging a person?
In the event of you Miss judging yeah, so that was you know in reference to a person that that we went through a counseling sheet on and
the
Fact was that I'd heard some bad stuff about them, you know bad hit a bad reputation
etc and so I was saying that hey, you know, I I treat everyone like a blank slate
and
So first of all I talked about this before is I set low expectations for people
I don't have a super high
Expectations of
What they're gonna do and how well they're gonna deliver and actually somebody hit me on Twitter today and said something along the lines of
I like the fact that everyone with you starts at zero
And I'm and he said I'm the same way he's saying he was the same way and I think that's a it's a pretty good attitude to have like everyone starts at zero
Right and that's a better way to put it in my opinion
Yeah, okay, okay, you have a zero and and again, I don't mean to sound like a negative person, but
I just don't set high expectations. I set it. I'm a zero right and look you show me who you are
I'm not gonna
predict one way or the other
I understand that people do crazy things
and and people are crazy in many ways
They're ego their personality their issues mean people
Their emotions
People do crazy things so I don't that's another thing that keeps me from
Giving people all kinds of credit out of the gate
And and I do
way what other people say
You know, I take it into account, but I definitely
Am careful to use my own judgment and not cloud my vision with what somebody else said about so and so
So
You know, how do I deal with misjudging a person? It's kind of what we were just talking about. I don't
Set permanent judgment on someone and
Say echoes bat and I don't like him and I don't trust him
That's not a permanent thing. You know, I I'm gonna build from zero and I'm gonna say oh, you know what actually hey
He did a good job with that or hey he had my back on that so I'm not
Stuck in my ways and I don't
I don't hold grudges against people and say this person's never gonna change that being said
Man, it's hard to change the spots of the leopard, you know people are who they are and it's a very difficult
Yes, sir some people can grow and change and evolve and that's great
But a lot of people they are who they are and so you have to take that into account as well
Right, yeah when you say like trusting someone once let's say someone burns you and whatever way and then you know a week later
Whatever
They had your back in a way that was really unexpected compared to you know that action that they did
So basically what that does is help paint and overall picture of what kind of person this is to you
So where it's like okay, maybe I can trust him in this type of situation
Yeah, when they use benefits and in in
Detriments or in play and these other situations I can't so it's kind of this and then as you have more and more experience with people
They paint more of a picture. Yeah, so trust even saying trust that's such a broad brush
You know certain incentives are involved involved you can't trust a certain person to do or not do certain things
But yeah offer up different incentives and you know you can trust them
Yeah, and so I think the same thing that you're just saying is what I'm saying is I don't I'm not gonna miss
Judge someone because my judgment is not a permanent all
All powerful statement of one time. Yeah, I'm constantly looking at people and like you said learning impressions of their whole
Their whole entity. Yeah, what they're all about
Next
So starting out in jujitsu
How do you find a good gym in your area?
Yeah, okay, so this is actually a question, you know, we plucked one out of many of people that have hit us up on
Twitter about where to find a good
Presilling jujitsu gym because people I think people have heard
us talking about jujitsu and they heard me talking about it with Joe Rogan
You know, her retoken about with Tim Ferriss. I mean something that I talk about something that is definitely a big part of my life
I know it's a big part of your life as well and so people think you know I'd like to check that out and I think that's awesome
And if you're out there and you're gonna ask me if you should start jujitsu
And you're gonna give me a whole bunch of quantifiers that you're old or you work a lot or you
You've been sick or you've been injured or whatever you're gonna tell me and I can tell you 99.99
99.9% of the time my answer is gonna be yes you should start jujitsu except if your sickness is contagious
Except if your sickness is contagious or if you're a bully or you're a sadist
You're an evil person that's hungry for a power. I'm gonna tell you don't
Start jujitsu because you're gonna use it for bad things
Yeah, and even before that I think you might get it
Turned on you
You know how like because it's really easy to depends on the school, but
For the most part it's really easy to spot a bully when it comes to the gym and it's you and it doesn't fare well
It doesn't fare well. It'll maybe fare well for a day or even maybe one five-minute match or something like that
That meant it doesn't yeah jujitsu is a self-regulating
Yeah, for the most part. Yes self-regulating seeing very few people
Can maintain and and most people with bully bullying attitudes don't have the humility to continue in jujitsu for a long time
Anyways, yes, so that's another way that itself pleases so how do you find a good
jujitsu gym
Obviously you start with Google you find out some locations to me proximity is very important
So you want a place that's you know on your way to work on your way home from more close to your house
So it's somewhere that you're gonna get in there and train because you don't want to sign up for a gym
And never go because it's too far too out of the way so proximity is definitely a factor
Then you're gonna ask yourself what are you looking for because jujitsu gyms very tremendously in how they're set up how they're run and
All those things. I mean there's really super traditional
Brazilian jujitsu gyms where they you you bow before you get on the mat you bow after you you bow to the instructor
When you're gonna talk to him you are very they're very strict with uniforms
That you know only a white uniform you have to have this certain patch on your uniform to represent the school that's that's one type of
Appness fear that you could have then you could have a very loose atmosphere where it's like you know
You're gonna come in you're gonna train there is no bowing there's there's handshakes and there's respect
But it's not as overt and not as
Imposed as it would be in a more traditional Brazilian jujitsu school. So what are you looking for you know for me?
I always you know and and if you come to my gym it's a very it's a very relaxed atmosphere in terms of
Traditionally imposed discipline
But when you roll there will be discipline imposed
It's pretty dynamic though like we have such a big group of people that
To go in there and and to get a non-competitive roll is you can easily do that
Yeah, that's sure in fact you you it's easy to choose it's easy to be like okay
I know let's roll with this group and it's gonna it's gonna I'm gonna go over here with this crew today and they're gonna bring it or
You know what I'm gonna chill with these guys over here and we're gonna work on some technique and maybe I can ask this guy about that
Yeah, so that's that's good that is good
You know there's also a are you gonna go to a school that's very focused on sport jujitsu
which is hey we're gonna compete we're gonna learn
The techniques that are very applicable to
to competing in jujitsu yeah
Or am I gonna do something that's more towards self defense or and or MMA and a classic example
I think of that as the is the 50 50 guard
Where in this position in jujitsu if you don't know jujitsu where if you're in a no rule situation
You're very vulnerable to a devastating submission called a heel hook and so it's
But there's there's certain competition rules that don't allow for heel hooks in that position
So depending on what's kind of school you're at one of them you're gonna get you're gonna be in a in a different situation
In that in that one position and and you know actually at our school we do we do both
But do you want to do MMA focus?
Do you want to do ghee or no ghee and again there's benefits to both those and they're both fun and
I like training both
So you kind of kind of think about what you're looking for and then and then bring that into the school and and then go try some classes
You know take some classes at a school and see what they're like
What are the other students like you know what kind of atmosphere is it?
Do they have like the similar goals if you want to compete if that's your goal
Then
Are the other people that you talk to or they like yeah, I compete all the time
There's a tournament coming up or they like yeah, you know we can be sometimes or actually I don't care about competing because there's plenty of people that
Change the Jitsu they don't care about competing is there
You know what's the attitude what's is their egos?
Our people roll if you try to kill you which which 99% of the time in a Jitsu school is not gonna happen
But it can happen it can happen so what and then and then it's like what was the instructor like is the instructor personal?
Is it is the instructor you know what we're talking about earlier is he clear as he concise is he understand?
Can you understand him can you understand the way he's explaining moves now?
There's a you got to give a little leeway there if you jump into a class that's an advanced class
You're not gonna understand everything you know and people ask me on how to get started on Jitsu and I tell him go immersion training
Just like a language just get in there and start training and you're gonna get
Destroyed at first and then you're gonna slowly learn and the next thing
You know that's a fastest way to learn languages to get immersed in it and do the same thing with Jitsu
Is the instructor
Having fun. Is the guy having fun or the girl are they having fun?
Teaching is it a fun thing because you want you Jitsu to be fun and
You want the instructor to be having fun because if the instructor's not having fun, well
Then what you know what are they gonna be like in six months if they're not having fun today
Then what are they gonna be like in six months? So that's that's another important piece yeah
When you talk about what what you're looking for you know in Jitsu
And in my experience
There's so many elements of it to look for like if you know when you if you say okay
Am I do I want to learn MMA learning MMA or fighting is the sport of fighting compared to like for example the
Gracie Academy torrents
Their Jitsu self defense in regards to fighting getting into a fight or someone attacks you and a fight
That's way different than training in MMA
Training MMA is the sport of MMA. You're gonna learn a lot of moves. You're not probably not gonna learn
Things that a quote unquote an attacker. I mean you you'll you will but it's not focused on that
You're not gonna learn stuff that an attacker is gonna do to you
So even that differentiation is just the fighting part alone. Yes, not to mention the competition part
The ghee the no ghee the you know all these dynamic moves like if you go tenth planet tenth planet convert to like
Crazy Academy torrents or almost like two different sports almost yeah and they are but at the same time
You're gonna get
You're gonna get you Jitsu that that's it and you're gonna get you Jitsu and
That's the important thing
Is the GJ2 and just like we talked about the evolution of your principles let your
You know your game should evolve as well and almost everybody that's never done GJitsu before
If you said well, why do you want to take GJ2? 90% of them are gonna say oh self defense
Right and so because you know people say I want to learn to defend myself
There's not too many people that are gonna be saying you know what I really have become interested in this
Rebrow aspect of GJ2 which maybe some people that listen to us talk about it or listen to Joe Rogan talk about it
You know they'll say oh that guy's talking about this thing as if it's a very cerebral experience
So maybe someone but but most people yeah, I want to learn another fun myself
I'll phone to make sure you're so
But you're gonna evolve past that because after six months of training you can handle yourself in the street regardless of you went to tenth planet
You went to the grace of you can you're gonna be able to handle yourself in the street and so then it becomes an obsession of
How did that move happen?
So that's what you got to that's what you got to be ready to evolve and when you're at that point if you go to you know
school A versus if you went to school B
Your experience is gonna be a lot different and it's gonna depend on what you're looking for in the beginning
But nonetheless, yeah, if it is obviously if it's a GJ2 school yeah, that's that that part's not really gonna change
Yeah, you're gonna learn GJ2 which is a beautiful thing
The other thing that I gotta say is you got it
GJ2 as much as I love it
GJ2 is not
a religion and
you know
The the black belt instructor at the school does not have contact or direct communications with God, right?
so
Just I think keep that in mind. It's a person that is trained in a sport for longer than you okay?
So
Just keep that in mind. It's not a cult there there should be an open atmosphere in my opinion
You should be looking for a GJ2 school that has an open atmosphere
Not a cult controlling atmosphere
You know that being said and and I said this already respect
Yes, absolutely you should respect the people that are there and respect your training partners and
respect your
instructors for sure, but
You shouldn't be worshiping them and they shouldn't be expecting you to worship them
So just be advised because GJ2 it should be fun. It should be friendly. It should be engaging
The atmosphere should be good and it should be competitive without being cut throat
You know you you should want to go without fear of having a death match every single night
Unless that's what you're looking for and you just said that echoing me like I go in every night looking for a death match against being against you against
Andy, you know against
Who can crack or grab I mean are true of murderers?
I'm I'm going in for death match every night and even when I don't want a death match I give it to him because because that's how I'm getting better
And that's part of my own
Personal will to say you know what regardless
I'm in there to
Put it on the line and and throw it out there and if they get the best of me cool so be it. I learned I got better
And I I definitely got better than I would if I was either a
Sitting on the side of the mat be wrong with someone that's not as good or see you stay in at home
Right, so yeah, that's so interesting how how it really does accommodate who you are like you when you see when you go in looking for it
a death match every night
That totally makes sense because of who you are and who I understand you to be
But at the same time in the same gym on the same mat. Yeah. Yeah, you can have there's people chilling and rolling
Who's you know, you know, you know, you know ends up getting his black belt a bunch of knowledge, but he is not going for any death match. Yeah, you know older guy
That's what so
In my opinion good about it. Yeah, so eight accommodate so you are so much like me
I do both like some days death match sure, but most days you do that much like once every
Every two weeks once every two weeks we get the death match Rebecca
So yeah, go out there and join you jitsu, but make sure you don't fall into a cult
Next
Do you eat fruit and it's so how often and if not why not?
No
So
Okay, do I eat fruit sometimes I eat fruit
Hmm, but if you would ask me if you should eat fruit
I would basically say no. I don't recommend it and again this is just a if you talk to
Dom Dagastino who's a doctor or or mr. Paleo himself Rob Wolf
If you if you go and listen to his podcast or doctor Peter itia
You know who I've talked about before these guys
They know what they're talking about and they will tell you what I'm telling you and these guys will back it up with
Science upon science upon science so
fruit carbohydrates spike here in some level just not good for you
Again, and my an extremists know have some blueberries get your blueberries on get your blackberries on that's awesome
But take a bunch of fruit and put it with some apple juice and mix it up in a blender and eat you know
400 grams a carbohydrates and one shot no don't do that. It's not good for you
Have you ever eaten and I'm not saying when you're on the program so to speak
Have you ever eaten the whole box of donuts negative?
Have you ever eaten a bag of Hershey's kisses one time?
Then it did not make did not work out good so when you say you don't eat fruit that's more of like when you're on the program
Yeah, and you you're you want to know when I'm on the program
Yeah, when you're on the now
But yeah, I
When when you're when you're trying to eat clean what you should be trying to clean 80% of the time as anyone will tell you
You know keep it clean and and keep it to you know fat and and protein if you can do it
A little bit of a subject change when
If ever is it a good time to blow up that's someone to lose your temper well blow up at someone and lose your temper two different things, right?
I think is it good? I think I think I think most people would think that they are the same thing
Losing your temper and blowing up at someone and I can tell you that is almost never good to do that and when I say almost never I mean
Never with the tiniest caveat
of
There is some possible scenarios where it might need to happen
So if you lose your temper you blow up at somebody
What do you what are you showing you're showing that you can't
Control your temper and if you can't control your temper then what can you control?
Right that and I'm not saying you should show no emotions because if you show no emotions
And you're a robot and robots can't lead people and people don't follow robots
So there's some obviously some level of showing emotions is needed
But if you're
Losing your temper you're not thinking clearly
And if you're not thinking clearly because you've lost your temper you can't even read their reactions
To what you're saying and the fact that you're blowing up is is clouding your own vision the fact that you're losing your temper is
Clouding your own vision
And so you got to detach in order to be observant in order to watch what your actions are so
If you do have to blow up and win okay, so when when is this almost never happen if if you were working for me
And you did something wrong
And I said echo and it was grievous. It was like pretty grievous like it could have got someone hurt
And I said echo hey
Do you this was bad this is what happened? I don't know what I did wrong that thought the you made you think that would be okay
But whatever I image I gave you
That made you think this was okay. I this is the worst mistake I've ever made we can never let this happen again
Okay, and you're like yeah, okay, and then four days later you do to get
And I'd come at the same approach
Maybe a little bit different like echo I don't know if there's anything I could do to make this more clear than I did
What can I do to make you understand so we might go three or four five iterations maybe one more iteration
I should say three iterations of
You not you failing to do what you're supposed to do and getting someone hurt or almost getting someone hurt
So now I go okay
He hasn't listened to the indirect approach. He hasn't listened to the direct approach. He hasn't I've taken ownership of it
He hasn't taken any yet
I need to come out of a different angle. Okay. I need to lose my temper with him and it's gonna be a calculation and I won't actually lose my temper
But I will raise my voice. I will get loud. I will point and I will make damn sure
That you understand that this infraction that you have committed is
severe and grievous and can never happen again and that's the situation where I would quote unquote
Blow up at somebody it is so rare that
It's so rare that in my military career off the top my head I can remember one and only one incident of this
Where I actually said you know what this was this was a bad mistake
I could see where these guys think they might be able to get away with this again in the future
And I'm gonna make sure that they realize that was it the kind where they it's not like they made the same mistake
It was more like they chose to do something
They chose to do something a certain way and in my my
Assessment of it was that they would do it again if I didn't make it perfectly clear
That this could never happen again and so I raised my voice. I pointed in the face and
You know gave them
20 seconds of
of
Intensity and the situation never happened again and they apologize
But overall
Not a good thing don't lose your temper people don't do it. Yeah, I would say losing your temper
Not blowing up at someone losing your temper like for real losing it
Uh, it's you can be hard it's gonna be hard to think of a situation where that's cool. Yeah, okay, and I'll tell you want to know when I lose my temper
Or because I'll tell you I do lose my temper it happens once every six months and it is almost always with inanimate objects
Namely
objects that print or copy
or compute in some way
You know electronics
Sometimes I I get I get angry. Yeah
You probably want to keep that in private
Areas right you know what people to see that yeah like my wife will hear me once every six months you know and she'll come in and she'll be like a printer and
Oh, yeah
She says you're stupid. I go. I know
She goes it doesn't care if you yell at it. You know, I say yeah. I know
I'm my experience that I found the same thing
Looking we're looking okay here's the next question
Your specific lifting workout your weekly training schedule including jiu-jitsu
This is a big question and this for those of you that do jiu-jitsu out there in the world
This is like when someone says hey, hey, jockel how do I pass your guard?
Because I have a good guard and so you know someone that is a blue belt
we'll say
You know a how do I pass your guard you know and they and and literally
I have guys at the gym that are
Brown belts and black belts that pass my guard once every six months, you know
So my guard is good and
You know here's a blue belt like how do I pass your guard?
So this this question kind of reminds me of that a little bit
um specific lifting workout and weekly training schedule on jiu-jitsu. So this is a big ask
And here's the problem that I have with us
I'm an individual and
I have
Strength and weaknesses. I have
Whatever little
Injury thing that I'm working through at a particular time
I have
Things that I like to do and I have things that I don't like to do
I'm an individual and my workout is for me and and I've taken and I've you know sometimes people
I'll go on a trip and they'll be a guy that's naffly and you'll say oh, do you know I want to
I want to go through one your workouts with you and I say okay and I've done that and and I've had guys
Like almost hospitalized from going through one of my workouts and
That's not good and then I've had other guys like there's guys out there that will just crush me and a workout you know and especially
You know there's workouts that I have
That I could be most of the world in you know there's workouts that I have that I could crush
Anybody in and then there's workouts that some you know
Yoga instructor could put me through that would crush me, right?
So my point is that you get some people that that would die do one of my workouts and you get some people that would it be my one of my workouts
Is no impact because they're an incredible athlete and so why would either one of them want to do my workout?
It doesn't make any sense that they would want to do that so
What I've been trying to think is I get asked all the time. You know what you work out what you work out what you work out
And so what I've been trying to figure out is how to do this how do I
How do I communicate what I'm doing and what I've
What I've been kind of
Going through the idea in my head is
Putting together a like an ebook and I actually put this out on Twitter. I was like oh yeah, I'll do an ebook and people like ebook
Yeah, do it do it so it's an idea that's already been floated out there unfortunately there's not been a lot of time to be right in ebooks
But what what the focus would be
Would be yeah like the types of exercise that I do yes, but and you know
Kind of the numbers of that I that I do of them but more importantly
Going to a from a leadership perspective is what is the intent?
What is the commanders intent of my workout? What am I trying to accomplish because
For you and me to accomplish the same thing is gonna be a different a very different workout right if if I want to
If I want to take myself to a
to an anaerobic threshold for a total of
15 minutes what I would do to get there is very different from what you would do to get there it just it just is
If I wanted to destroy my legs with heavy squats it would be very different between what you would do and what I would do
So what's important is is not the actual exercises that I'm doing it's the intent and am I achieving that
Attent and am I achieving that intent like I can do a
Decent amount of pull-ups right and and in one of my pull-up workouts
I might do 500 pull-ups or 300 pull-ups
There's a lot of people that can't do a hundred pull-ups. So
Just in the workout right not 300 pull-ups. Yeah, no, I can't do three hundred pull-ups in a row. No
I wish I could but
But my intent is to you know
Max do do a number of maximum sets of pull-ups and then do a number of slow
You know very good form
Maximum sets and and the intent is to get stronger at pull-ups by doing you know a
high number of maximum sets and I think that intent to give to people would say okay
So that way if Echo's not gonna pause and you go okay well I'm gonna go in and I know what the intent is
I'm trying to get to a point of failure even on one single pull-up and it might take you only
15 minutes do that and 30 pull-ups, you know or whatever the case may be and for someone that's really good a rock climber
It might take them you know 45 minutes and they might be 600 pull-ups deep before they get there
And so that's kind of the idea I'm batting around. I don't know if people have that really interested in that
I think a lot of times people
want
a formula
and I don't think I'm gonna give out a formula because the formula is gonna be different for different people at different times and their lives and ages and
Body weights and you know male or female they're just all so many variables
But I think if I can give out what the intent of my workouts are
then
We're in the right place. Yeah, but those those different
Variables and stuff that that could very well be the reason that people want your workout because it's to this
Two things. It's probably more than two but two big things
That kind of come along with wanting your specific workout and one would be just to kind of immerse myself into what you go through in a workout
And how does that feel and how do I kind of measure up you know
And then so those two things like what does it feel like to do a joccal workout?
You know like how hard is it? You know he's gonna do you know 600 pull-ups in a workout limb
The lift you know like how does that feel you know is that the hardest thing I've ever done or you know is that just obvious you know these workouts are that hard
Joccal some punk
Right well that that's the second part does it you know
How do I measure up if he does you know 20 sets
Of squats with whatever weight
How do I measure up? Can I get all those 20 sets or can I get that weight for 20 sets you know
So those two things one they just want to immerse themselves in your in your world as far as workouts go and the second one is it's how do I measure up?
I know that's kind of what I think when when someone's like oh here's here's our workout like those CrossFit workouts
some of those
Just mentally I do that like okay this guy's doing
20 pull-ups in a row like how many can I do you know I measure and then at the same time
It's like this is you get to understand what these CrossFiters do
Come here, you know and then like I said they go back and forth that those two things and I think that that that is interesting
Like if you were to tell me what you did this morning for a workout yeah like I'd be interested
On top of the fact that oh made that I want to do that workout for me for results for myself
Right and yet you're right it may or may I'm now all probably have different results
Even if I do that the same workout is you for you know six months. I might have different results
but that part about measuring up and just
Knowing who you are and kind of what you stand for and this is the workout that you do just understanding that I think that's significant too
Yeah, I would love to tell you that I'm some you know physical specimen but I'm not
I'm actually not the strongest guy. I'm not the fastest guy. I'm not the most flexible guy
I try hard and I also am a result of my my physical aptitude is like a
Is like a is like a
brownish gray
paint because I mix up so much stuff in there that I'm the result of
You know, I'm not bright red
Right, right, right. I'm not bright blue
Because those two things you know the strength has been mixed with endurance has been mixed with flexibility
has been mixed with all these things have been mixed together and I don't want to get
Too much of any of them yeah because then I'm losing something else and so so I'm kind of this this this kind of average in many
categories and
and my numbers in very few of the modern press anybody you're pretty strong now
Yeah, and and you know like but I'm not one of those people that's on the mat that you go man
that guy is just
Freaking strong, you know, well, at least it's hard for me to judge but I know that
I guess people say oh you're strong. Yeah, sometimes I think that okay
You're like that guy on the you know you ever play video games? No
Okay, so let's say you play I don't know football
Yeah, you play football so when you analyze your players
It'll have all these attributes speed hands acceleration right and it's like I don't know zero to 10
So you're the guy who has all like eights
Yeah, instead of the guy with two tans and then a three yeah, you know
But like anybody that's listening to this podcast can beat me in a bunch of categories
Yeah, you know they got tans and some stuff right and and I don't I don't have any tans and anything
That's okay not everyone can have tans. Yeah
Next question yeah
Would you talk more about how you view aggression positives and negatives?
Well
I like everything
In life and in leadership and in your personality
It has to be balanced aggression has to be balanced and you know one of the one of the things from from the book
Is you know you got to be aggressive but not overbearing so yeah you got to be aggressive to be a leader
You've got to be
Because if you're gonna make things happen you've got to be aggressive to make things happen
You have to make things happen, you know, I always say people like all they want to make money
I'm like oh you you just make money you have to take you have to take that money
It doesn't gonna fall in your house
Line your lap. It's not gonna make itself you have to take it if that's what your goal is
Injudjitsu you're you're not gonna get better just by being you have to take the the progression
You have to take it and make it happen and
And that's the same thing with anything in life. So so aggression
Definitely comes into play but
For instance in a leadership position if you're completely aggressive all the time your
Subordinance will not want to
Communicate with you they want to debate with you they want to say hey boss
I don't agree with what you're saying here because it afraid you're gonna go hey you don't know what you're talking about
We're gonna go my way out of the highway that's what they're gonna expect so you can't be overbearing
You know on the mat you can't exhaust yourself with aggression
And that's one of the things you know that I think from
Purple the brown belt which is you know your your
Six to eight years in the game is where people start to calm down and realize that that aggression needs to be
Tampered and control and people have to relax
um
And in combat
Obviously being aggressive and being this aggressively decisive
Is important but if you go too far without you're running to your death
So you have to modulate your aggressive you have to modulate your aggression you can't
Abuse it you gotta use it but you can't abuse it
And I don't want to discount aggression in any way
Because you know I always say that your default mode
Should be aggression like when you
When you hit the reset button on your brain you should come out of that reset being aggressive because that that
Be aggressive be proactive make things happen
Beyond offense, you know not sitting back and waiting
To be attacked or waiting
For a situation to occur no make that situation occur go
Hmm so that's my view of aggression and and it just has to be balanced and there's of there are still times
Where you know if you meet aggression with aggression it's actually
Not good you know you you see this in digital you see this in escalating in when you're either in a
Comfortation of some kind of somebody
Aggressively escalating something might be a good choice. It might be a bad choice. You know
There's always the bully that as soon as you you say hey, you know what I'd love to fight in fact fighting is my favorite thing to do
Let's go I got it's like no man. I was I was just kidding. So aggression
Will win there
Or you know if someone's really being aggressive and you just knock him out
Well, then that's that's a better handling of the situation
But there's also times where there's you know maybe there's multiple attackers or someone that's you know you're in the street
No, it's it's always better in the street to avoid the confrontation, you know
With his at-person have a knife does that person have a get gun?
Is does that person have a communicable disease? Does that person have friends around the corner?
Is that personal lawyer who's gonna sue you?
I mean there's all these reasons to get into to not get into a fight in the street so
So aggressively
Meeting aggression with aggression is probably not that smart. It's probably better to avoid this scenario
And then and the more time you spend in
You know in combat sports boxing and doing you just to them the more likely you are to be able to be like, you know what?
I don't need to prove anything this guy. I'm it's it means nothing to me
I prove myself on the matter every single day. I got nothing to prove to to Joe drunk idiot over here
So I think that aggression again. I think your default mood mode should be aggressive
But make sure that you maintain enough detachment of the situation that you can see if you're being overly aggressive and it's leading you to a bad scenario
Okay last question you talk about mine control
Can you expand your thoughts on that subject?
Mind control
You know when people think of the word mind control they think of controlling other people's minds and
And when I think about mind control I think about
controlling your own mind
because
while
I am obviously a physical person and we spend a lot of this
Podcast tonight talking about physical culture and I embrace physicality
but
We are our minds and
I'm not gonna be you know going into a Sam Harris philosophical rant on
What it means and where the you actually is and whether there's a soul or a brain or whatever your heart
or some other
conjured up place
This is what I know
Is that you
Your mind
The thing that is listening and comprehending these words right now that is you
and that thing that mind
You can control
You
You are the machine and you can control the machine and people ask me
How do I get tougher
Be tougher
They ask me how can I wake up earlier in the morning
The answer is wake up earlier in the morning
How can I work out consistently every single day
Work out consistently every single day
How can I stop from eating sugar
Stop eating sugar
What about the emotions
How can I stop missing that girl or that guy who whoever whoever broke up with me?
How can I stop missing them
Stop missing them
That is mind control you have that ability
You just have to assert it you have to decide that you're gonna be in control
And that you are going to do what you want to do
weakness doesn't get a vote
Lazyness they don't get a vote
Sadness no no vote frustration no vote negativity
You don't get a vote
I don't even give my temper a vote
So
The next time
That you're feeling weak or you're feeling lazy or you're feeling soft or you're feeling emotional
Tell them that they don't get a vote
Tell them you are declaring martial law on your mind
You're declaring mind control and
Impose
What you want on your brain
Impose the discipline and the power and the positivity and the will
And use that mind control
To move your life
Where you want it to be
It's the things I always say get stronger faster smarter quicker friendlier more helpful more driven
Don't let your mind control you
Control your mind
And once you control your mind
Then
You can set it free
And I think we'll close with that for today. Yeah, that's about all of that
You've got life right there
And you know
If you're out there and you want to communicate with us you want to carry on this conversation
You want to continue down this path
You can do so on Twitter
I'm at Jocco Willink and echo is at echo Charles
I want to thank everyone for listening
I want to thank you for subscribing to this podcast for placing reviews
on this podcast
for spreading the word about this podcast and most of all I want to thank you
for getting after it
This is Jocco and echo and until next time
Out